OSDOCS DRA GA, admin access, priority lists (#103484)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nodes-pods-allocate-dra-configure-about.adoc

--

Resource slice::
The Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) driver on each node creates and manages _resource slices_ in the cluster. A resource slice represents one or more GPU resources that are attached to nodes. When a resource claim is created and used in a pod, {product-title} uses the resource slices to find nodes that have access to the requested resources. After finding an eligible resource slice for the resource claim, the {product-title} scheduler updates the resource claim with the allocation details, allocates resources to the resource claim, and schedules the pod onto a node that can access the resources.

Resource claim template::
Cluster administrators and operators can create a _resource claim template_ to request a GPU from a specific device class. Resource claim templates provide pods with access to separate, similar resources. {product-title} uses a resource claim template to generate a resource claim for the pod. Each resource claim that {product-title} generates from the template is bound to a specific pod. When the pod terminates, {product-title} deletes the corresponding resource claim.
+

> The following example resource claim template uses CEL expressions to request devices in the `example-device-class` device class. Because the `firstAvailable` parameter is included in the request, the first requested device is allocated to the requesting pod. If the first device is not available, the second device is allocated. If neither device is available, the scheduler cannot create the requesting pod.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example resource claim template's `firstAvailable` contains subrequests of which exactly one will be selected by the scheduler. It tries to satisfy them in the order in which they are listed here. So if there are two entries in the list, the scheduler will only check the second one if it determines that the first one can not be used. A CEL expression is used inside the subrequest for selecting a device 
```

+
To gain admin access, an administrator must create a resource claim or resource claim template with the `adminAccess: true` parameter in a namespace that includes the `resource.kubernetes.io/admin-access: "true"` label. Non-administrator users cannot access namespaces with this label. 
+
.Example namespace with admin access label
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    resource.kubernetes.io/admin-access: "true"
# ...
----
+
In the following example, the administrator is granted access to the `2g-10gb` device:
+
.Example resource claim object with admin access
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: resource.k8s.io/v1
kind: ResourceClaimTemplate
metadata:
  name: large-black-cat-claim-template
spec:
  devices:
    requests:
    - name: req-0
      exactly:
        allocationMode: All
        adminAccess: true
        deviceClassName: example-device-class
        selectors:
        - cel:
            expression: "device.attributes['driver.example.com'].profile == '2g.10gb'"
----
+
--
where:

`spec.devices.requests.name.exactly.adminAccess:true`:: Specifies that the admin access mode is enabled for the specified device.
--

Priority lists::

> In both resource claim templates and resource claims, you can either require all requested devices be available before a pod can be scheduled, or create a prioritized list of two resources in case the first resource is not available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prioritized list::
A prioritized list of subrequests for requests in resource claim templates or resource claims can be provided. This allows users to specify alternative devices that can be used by the workload if the primary choice is not available.
```

+

> In the `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `ResourceClaim` object, you must specify `exactly` to require all devices to be available or `firstAvailable` to create a priority list. 

Reviewer: I think we should focus on the functionality of the options `exactly`, `firstAvailable` rather than insisting on the availability of the devices when these options are used.

      - name: 1g-5gb
        deviceClassName: example-device-class
        selectors:
        - cel:
            expression: "device.attributes['driver.example.com'].profile == '1g.5gb'"
      - name: 2g-10gb
        deviceClassName: example-device-class
        selectors:
        - cel:
            expression: "device.attributes['driver.example.com'].profile == '2g.10gb'"
      - name: 3g-20gb
        deviceClassName: example-device-class
        selectors:
        - cel:
            expression: "device.attributes['driver.example.com'].profile == '3g.20gb'"
----

Prioritized list::
In the `ResourceClaimTemplate` or `ResourceClaim` object, you must specify either `exactly` to request a specific device or `firstAvailable` to create a prioritized list of devices, in case the primary choice is not available. 
+
* `spec.devices.requests.firstAvailable` specifies multiple requests for a device, of which only one device needs to be available before the scheduler can create the requesting pod. The scheduler checks the availability of the devices in the order listed and selects the first available device. The scheduler can create the pod if one requested devices is available.

> * `spec.devices.requests.exactly` specifies one or more requests for a device, for which all of the devices must be available before the scheduler can create the requesting pod. Each of the devices must the request exactly for the request to be satisfied. If any of the requested devices is not available, the scheduler cannot create the pod.

Author: @sairameshv Thank you. Not sure where I picked up that idea that you can make multiple requests. I agree, it seems incorrect.
